Today we will talk about the distribution channel.
It is one of the most important
blocks within the business model and
therefore it is necessary to understand
it very well.
This class is really simple because
they are pretty obvious things and
I imagine that many of the concepts
you will already know, but it'
s okay to refresh it.
What we're going to do is, in addition
to identifying the types of channels
there, we're going to try
to analyze what the pros and cons
of each of the channel types
are.
Let us take the example of the
wine industry.
Let's use the example of Vintai,
which is a company you already know.
Why do I use the wine industry?
Well, because the wine sector
channel is a very similar channel
to many others.
What we have on screen is the
wine industry's supply
chain.
Supply chain is a concept you
have to understand, but it's a
very obvious and very simple
concept.
It is the chain that goes from raw
materials to the final consumer,
which, as you see, between mediums
there are different companies,
processes, operations, but everything
is linked.
Well, two types of distribution
channels or two types
of channel strategy mainly.
We could set more rankings,
but I think this is the most
important one and you have
to understand well.
And it is that you can opt for direct
sales, by a direct channel, that
is, that you with your media
direct to the final consumer.
Or you can choose an indirect
channel, which in many sectors is the
most common, and is that you rely
on companies that are intermediaries
between you, in this case the
producer that is Vintai, the cellar,
and the final consumers
branches of wine.
Let us begin by analyzing for the
case of Vintai, what would be the
links of this indirect channel.
Well, first we have a channel
that in this sector is called distributor
and in other sectors is called
wholesale.
And as you can see, I have drawn,
I have chosen the icon of a truck,
because one of the values it
brings is logistics.
In this case, they are companies
that distribute Vintai and
other brands, other beverages,
and have a relationship,
imagine, with the restaurant
channel or with the specialized
store channel, for example.
This is the wholesale channel, it provides
a value mainly logistically and gives
you capilarity, because each distributor
has many customers who are
those restaurants.
The retail channel is called
the retail channel, which is
called different forms in different
sectors.
What would this channel be in
the wine sector?
You will understand well.
Well, then the ORECA channel,
hotels, restaurants, etc.
The channel of the large distribution,
supermarkets, e-commerce, and
we could also incorporate the
specialized stores, which
do not enter any of the
above sections.
As you can see, we are englobating
in this channel the last sling before
reaching the final consumer.
Now, we go to the direct sales
channel.
As I said, this is when
you go directly to the
end consumer.
In the case of cellars, I think
this is quite residual, direct
sale is residual.
But well, for some example, I
would tell you that the wine they
sell, the cellars, in the cellar
itself, if you are going to
visit, etc.
That is direct selling.
Or if the cellars have, for
example, an e-commerce own, if
you can buy directly on their website,
in this case it is not so.
If you can, it could also
be considered a direct sale.
Well, I think it's very easy to
rank direct sales when you're targeting
the end consumer, or indirect
sales when you rely on intermediaries.
Until now, it is very easy,
what I would like to do is
to analyze what are the advantages,
pros and cons of both strategies.
And we will do it from the
perspective of indirect sale.
The classification of direct
and indirect channels is very
simple, as I have said, it is dependent
on intermediaries or not.
But the interesting thing
is that we analyze what
are the advantages, pros and cons
of each of the strategies.
Let's start with the channel.
I would say the main thing about
the indirect channel is that it allows
you to have much more reach and faster.
This allows you to reach
many more customers in a simpler
way.
And it also allows you to do so without
having to invest in many key
resources.
It is a little like.
The conclusion of this is that you are
more scalable with the indirect
channel, because you can grow very
fast without having to make a lot
of additional investments.
This also facilitates the
simplicity of operations.
Because you can focus on your core
activity, which in the case of
a cellar is to make wine.
If you also have to dedicate yourself
to marketing to the final
consumer, you want to enter
the next slopes, because
obviously the management of
the company is complicated.
So far we have seen benefits.
But there are also certain traps, obviously,
and it is the indirect channel
that keeps you away from the end consumer.
It makes you lose some control.
It is true that companies
try to be close to the
end consumer, get feedback,
etc.
But it is clear that by having
intermediaries you lose some proximity,
you lose feedback, you lose
information, which in many cases
is very valuable.
And on the other hand, obviously,
the fact that you rely
on intermediaries who make money
and apply a margin, makes
your margin on final sales
lower, obviously.
Because the price of sale to the
channel, to the distributor, is much
lower, obviously, than that of the
final consumer.
Now go to the channel.
The direct channel has disadvantages
that are just the opposite.
First, to grow you need more resources.
You need to make more investments, of course.
If you want to grow at the same rate
through a direct channel as an
indirect one, imagine the
investments you have to make
to have all that reach.
On the other hand, as an advantage is that
you are very close to the final consumer,
you get feedback that does not pass
through the filter of other
companies or other people.
This is a problem that I, as
a strategic consultant,
have found in a lot
of companies.
I always say that companies, especially
the big ones, many of whom I'
ve worked with, are too
far from the end consumer.
It is an incredible thing.
But of course, if you rely on other
companies that are in the middle,
then you already imagine it.
Well, and as a benefit of the direct
channel is that your margins are larger.
Obviously because you get the margin
of intermediation that your
distributors would be charging.
Thanks for watching the video.